---
Author: Bluefox
title: Christmas offer
editLink: https://github.com/ioBroker/ioBroker.docs/edit/master/blog/en/2020_12_06.md
logo: en/blog/images/2020_12_06.png
---
Dear ioBroker user,

the pretty crazy year 2020 is slowly coming to an end and we have a few more announcements for you:

In response to popular requests, there will be another Christmas offer for wizard and cloud/remote access licenses from December 8th, 2020 around 12:00 noon until January 10th, 2021 around 11pm.

You can expect a discount of around 33%. However, we have to limit the availability of the cloud or remote access licenses again in order to guarantee the stability and availability of the servers. The following applies to these licenses: As long as stocks last :). The wizard licenses are unlimited!

Further questions/problems/discussion: https://forum.iobroker.net/topic/39420/diskussion-weihnachtsaktion-assistenten-fernzugriff-2020
As announced, the packages are each discounted by approx. 33%:

12 months assistant license for 14.00€ instead of 21.00€
12 months remote access license for 26.85€ instead of 39.95€
The assistant license allows the use of Alexa and Google Home via the iot adapter.
The remote access license includes the use of the wizard as above plus remote access via the ioBroker Cloud.

Due to limitations imposed on us by PayPal, a "stacking" of licenses is only possible if the end of the term is less than 2 years in the future. Unfortunately, there is nothing we can do about it.

If you still use Alexa via the cloud adapter, please switch to iot.
Thread for questions or problems with the migration: https://forum.iobroker.net/topic/27474/iot-fragen-und-probleme-migration-cloud-iot
More on this at https://forum.iobroker.net/topic/39710/cloud-adapter-4-0-im-latest-alexa-nur-noch-per-iot

The 13-hour ioBroker master video course from ioBroker partner Matthias Kleine (https://haus-automatisierung.com/iobroker-kurs/) is well known. This covers the basics as well as deeper insights into many subject areas and practical examples. As a small end-of-year gift, we are raffling off the master's course worth 42 EUR 30 times between all buyers of a license (no matter which of the two) in the period from December 8th, 2020 and December 24th, 2020 (8:00 pm). Good luck!
The prize is not personal and can also be given away.
The judges' decision is final.